On my screen here is a to do app with local storage. As you can see I have a couple of tasks here, I will go ahead and add one more and then press enter, yeah so it gets added at the bottom.

This to do app has access to the local storage so every task you see here has being saved. I can reload the page several times and they will there.

I can even close the tab and when I open live server again, see they are still there. They will only disappear when I click the trash button.

So in this video we will learn 2 things. The first is how to build a very simple todo app and the second, how to save objects with local storage in JavaScript.

I have already written the CSS to save some time so follow along while I take you through the HTML and JavaScript of this project.

I have already generated my boilerplate code. Title of my page is TODO app. First thing I will do is to link my css and javascript files. Onto the body tag.

h2 tag with content, to do app with Local Storage Access. Next is a div with class container. Within this div I will create a form element with id form. I will delete the action attribute cos i don't need it now.

Within the form I will create an input with id input. It will have a placeholder, "Enter Your Task".

Finally is a ul element with id list.

I am done with HTML, lets move on to JavaScript.





First thing I will do is to select all the HTML elements I will be manipulating. The form element, the input element and the ul element with id list.

So the form element with id form. The input element with id input and the ul element or unordered list with id list.

Next I need to add an event listener to my form element like this, form dot addEventListener. The event I am looking for is submit then a call back function comes.

This statement means when the form is submitted which is when the user hits the enter key, this function should execute.

Currently when I hit the enter key on the input, the page reloads. I need to prevent the page from loading any time I submit so I just say e dot prevent default.

Now you can see when I hit the enter key, the page does not reload.

Next I will create a function and name it to do. This means anytime I submit the form, this to do function will run. Now I will come down here and define the function.

function todo and then curly braces. First I will create a new variable, newTask and assign it to input dot value. Input dot value just returns whatever has being typed in the input box.

Next I will create another variable const liEL which stands of list element. For this variable I will create a new element, document dot create element li.

I need to create an li element because the they will be appended as children of this ul element with id list. When I open the dev tools of the final work you can see that the ul element has li elements as children.

Next liEl dot innerHTMl equals back quotes and a span tag.